What are 3 specific tools/techniques that Haben Girma talks about that deaf and deafblind individuals use to communicate?

1- She speaks about using digital braille as a tool to communicate online.
2- She also speaks about the use of American sign language which was influenced by french sign language.
3- A third is print on palms where the communicator writes on someones palm to comunicate.

What are 3 kinds of rights that Helen Keller advocated for? Why does Haben Girma talk about Helen Keller?

she advocated for womens rights, workers rights, and disability rights. Miss Girma speaks about helen Keller because she is a walking representation 
of how people overcome disabilities.



According to Haben Girma, why do barriers exist? Name one barrier you have observed and one thing you think could be done to lower it.

They exist because people build them up. One barrier mentioned is that Harvard wouldn't accept women merely because of their gender. All that's needed to 
lower this barrier is to see that gender is merely a different expression of the same thing.


What are 3 different accessibility features that Haben Girma references specific to software/computer technology?

1- digital braille 
2- voiceover app from apple that will produce speech on ways the user can understand them
3 - dynamic type gives larger text size 



When should you start planning on incorporating accessibility features into your application? What metaphor does Girma use to illustrate this point?


Plan on it from the start, building a skyscraper without an elevator and having to tear it down and rebuild with one.



Who does accessibility increase access for? How?

It increases accessibility for everyone, for example captioning gives easier access to keyword search more reliably.



What are the two inventions that Girma mentions that were originally invented to address issues of accessibility?

1 - typewriter, so a blind person can write easily
2 - email, so a deaf couple could communicate without hearing involved. 


What is the last area that Haben Girma mentions as a place where we rarely seek innovation but has a lot of potential? Why does she say that this area has a lot of potential?

haptics, communication through touch. It has a lot of potential because skin is our largest organ.



Pick a website that you visit at least once a week. Answer the following questions about that website. Use complete sentences.


What is the website? (doesn't have to be a complete sentence)

Twitter

What are three aspects of this website that help it be more accessible?

It can read outloud all tweets, Text size can be made larger for those with vision impairments, and they're currently working on automated captions for videos

What are the accessibility critiques of this website? Do research to find reports about how well tools such as screen readers work on this site. Summarize the critiques you find and link your sources in your answer.

https://www.engadget.com/twitter-voice-notes-accessibility-210123919.html
https://knowbility.org/blog/2019/using-screen-readers-new-twitter/


Twitter got some heat for it's voice recording tweet feature. They didn't include closed captioning for the feature so people weren't all able to enjoy the new feature.
Screen reading also isn't perfect for twitter but it does cover the basics.


Propose some changes to the site that might address the critiques in #3. What are the pros/cons of these changes?


Close captioning on videos -pros deaf people can understand the videos - cons - extra words on screen 
a feature to read tweets outloud - cons - can miss tone of tweet - pros- blind people can surf twitter easily
digital braille translator - cons - might be a lot slower read - pros - blind and deaf people can have easier access to tweets
